---
layout: post
title: Easier68k
description: A Motorola 68000 assembler, disassembler, and simulator made in Python.
github_short: Chris-Johnston/Easier68k
github_url: https://github.com/Chris-Johnston/Easier68k
date: 2018-03-01
---

[Easier68k documentation can be found here.](https://chris-johnston.me/Easier68k/)

Part of my degree included a class on Hardware, in which we were taught an
introduction to assembly programming with the Motorola 68000 CPU.
The class used [assembler and simulator software called EASy68k.](http://www.easy68k.com/)

This software was notoriously difficult to use, and had significant usability
issues, especially when running under Wine on Linux.
(CTRL + Z would permanently delete 10 lines of code, for some reason.)

The final project in that class is typically to create a disassembler
written in 68k assembly, which is no small task.
My group wanted to incorporate continuous integration in our project
so that we could ensure that our code worked.
However, this software had shortcomings that prevented us from doing so. (And
how can we blame it, some of the original assembler source code is dated from
1986.)

We instead opted to create our own simulator, using Python. This gave
us native cross platform support, and from it we were able to build a command-line
application that could load assembly, assemble it, disassemble it, and simulate it.

For the scope of the final project, we only implemented about 6 opcodes,
just enough for us to print out a "Hello World!".

This project is occasionally updated. We originally had grand plans for
making a full implementation to replace EASy68k, but are unsure of the
ability to commit enough time to the project.

```
; Constants
CR  EQU     $0D
LF  EQU     $0A

start   ORG    $1000
        ; Output the prompt message
        LEA     MSG, A1 
        MOVE.B  #14, D0 
        TRAP    #15     
        ; halt
        MOVE.B  #9, D0
        TRAP    #15
MSG     DC.B    'This is some text', CR, LF, 0
        SIMHALT             ; halt simulator
END start
```

```
S021000036384B50524F47202020323043524541544544204259204541535936384B6D
S124100043F900001012103C000E4E4F103C00094E4F5468697320697320736F6D6520746523
S10A102178740D0A00FFFFC3
S1051026FFFFC6
S804001000EB
```